Something that I'm doing in this
more advanced frequency demo,
which I'm just gonna pop
open here in the browser.
So I'll just play it just to show.
[MUSIC]
So one thing I am doing is just splitting
up the frequency into these several
different bands, each band representing
the size of these different boxes.
And so certain notes or making
certain boxes get bigger and smaller.
But another thing I'm doing is I'm cycling
the hue of the entire graphic based on
the peak frequency.
So in this track it works really well
because whoever it is that's playing
the piano is going up,
the piano and down the piano, so
the notes are going higher and then lower.
And you can sort of see how that's
working here in the spectrum.
The peak maybe over here, it's here but
it's starts to move further and
further up.
And so that's what is happening in this
demo as well is it's capturing what
is the frequency, what is the band
that is currently highest?
And so
right now it might be here now it's here.
And now it's over here.
And that value is changing depending
on notes that are being played.
And so that function,
I'll show you how that looks,
And this is a bit of an unusual function,
I haven't really used it too much.
But it works really well with
this kind a audio track,
where you just go through
the frequency data.
And you find out what is the Mac signal
and what's the index of that Mac signal.
And then at the end of that, you
convert that index back to a frequency.
And then from there, you're gonna get back
a value that's gonna be shifting depending
on the sound that's playing.
It's gonna be shifting from somewhere
between 0 hertz and 22k hertz.
And from that,
you'll see what I'm doing with the hue.
As I'm mapping the hue from 0 hertz to
500 hertz, which is what I've decided, is
a good value from where the piano's moving
from left to right in terms of frequency.
And then I'm mapping that to a hue
between 0 degrees and 360 degrees, and
that's what's changing this color.
And it's kind of an interesting effect,
I'm doing it in a way that is smoothly
interpolated from frame to frame.
So that's using this damp function
which is damp and interpolation,
I guess you can say using
linear interpolation.
I tend to just copy and paste this
function all over the place now because
it's quite helpful to smoothly interpolate
things from one frame to the next.
You just pass in the current value, what
you want the value to be over time, and
then some sort of smoothing constant,
which could be a small number.
The smaller the number,
the slower it's gonna change.
The higher the number,
the faster it'll get to that value.
And then you pass in the delta time
that is the time that's elapsed
since the last frame.
And from that you can
get this nice sort of
smooth change in the hue that looks
quite nice on a graphic like this.
[MUSIC]
>> How do you adjust the fixed parameters
for a live audio source like mic input?
>> Yeah, so
I guess maybe one way of doing that would
be to use something like what I'm
doing here in terms of smoothing.
Where you have, let's say, you're finding
the peak signals, and you're over
time over the course of a few seconds,
or maybe 10 seconds, or 20 seconds.
You're having to adjust your parameters
basically based on where the signals are.
So if you're playing a track that's
like just constantly kick drums,
then the parameters might notice that
there's tons of activity happening
in the low frequency.
And so that window of where you're
looking might slowly drift over to there.
And then the track will keep playing and
you'll have this nice
visualization based on that.
And then the next track might kick in and
suddenly maybe it's
something piano related.
And so you're sort of running averages
will have to slowly drift over
to find the new window of which
frequencies to look at based on the fact
that there's not a lot of activity
happening in the low end, and
all the activities beginning
to happen in the upper end.
And that's like an interesting problem,
I had to work at that level.
I think that's something that, if you're
building a really, really professional
grade visualization of something, that
has to work across any potential input.
That sounds like it's maybe something
that's a little bit outside
the scope of what I even
know how to do with this.
So far, what I've been doing has been
more tuned based on specific inputs.
So that's kind of the nice thing about,
if you're creating an installation,
you're creating something
that has maybe let's say some
specific tracks already assigned to it.
Then you can create parameters for
each of those tracks.
And you know it's kind of
predictable in that way.
But yeah that's an interesting problem and
one that would be interesting to try and
solve.
>> I guess you're talking about dBFS?
How can you treat files at
different bit depths for dBFS?
Does the API internally convert
audio to a predefined bit depth?
>> Yeah, so from what I understand,
when you're working with Web Audio,
they give you back the data that's
in like a standard bit depth.
So you don't have to worry about that
when you're just using the analyzer node.
>> Now, if you're synthesizing audio,
there might be situations where
you do have to worry about that.
Or if you're doing manual sort of decoding
of the audio data into raw sort of PCM.
And then going over that and maybe doing
some manual FFT work on top of that,
instead of using the web
audio FFT library,
you might have to start to
concern yourself with it.
But, I think from what I understand
it's all fairly automatically
converted from for
most of these user friendly API endpoints.
>> Someone suggested for
the solution to the other question was,
that's when you have to step in as
a live VJ and tweak those parameters.
>> Yeah, definitely.
I mean, the cool thing is you can hook all
of these parameters up to MIDI because
there's actually a Web MIDI API.
And so yeah, you can really start to do
some live VJ stuff, which is pretty crazy.